
# Additional instructions for installing EMHASS

## Installing EMHASS in Docker

### Building the image locally

Instead of downloading an image from Docker Hub, you can build the image locally.
1. Clone this repository

```bash
git clone davidusb-geek/emhass
```
2. Update the `config_emhass.yaml` file in line with the [configuration instructions](config.md)

3. Use the provided make file with this command
```bash
make -f deploy_docker.mk clean_deploy
```
4. Then load the created .tar image file, as created in step 3.
```bash
docker load -i <TarFileName>.tar
```

### EMHASS data persistence

If you'd like to keep a local, persistent copy of data generated by EMHASS.
1. Create a local folder on your device, then mount that folder in the container.

```bash
mkdir -p $(pwd)/data #linux: create data folder on local device
```
2. Launch EMHASS on Docker.

```bash
docker run -it --restart always -p 5000:5000 -e LOCAL_COSTFUN="profit" -v $(pwd)/config_emhass.yaml:/app/config_emhass.yaml -v $(pwd)/data:/app/data -v $(pwd)/secrets_emhass.yaml:/app/secrets_emhass.yaml --name DockerEMHASS <REPOSITORY:TAG>
```

### Changing Timezone

If you'd like to set the web server's charts to a timezone other than UTC, you can the set `TZ` environment variable when launching EMHASS on Docker.
```bash
docker run -it --restart always -p 5000:5000 -e TZ="Europe/Paris" -e LOCAL_COSTFUN="profit" -v $(pwd)/config_emhass.yaml:/app/config_emhass.yaml -v $(pwd)/secrets_emhass.yaml:/app/secrets_emhass.yaml --name DockerEMHASS <REPOSITORY:TAG>
``` 


## Legacy Installation and Usage of EMHASS - Using a Python Virtual Environment

> [!NOTE]
> This is the legacy method of installing EMHASS, and requires an understanding of your underlying operating system's command line and Python 3.


### Installing using a Python virtual environment

1. With this method you install a Python virtual environment.
For this you will need `virtualenv`, install it using:
```bash
sudo apt install python3-virtualenv
```
2. Create and activate the virtual environment:
```bash
virtualenv -p /usr/bin/python3 emhassenv
cd emhassenv
source bin/activate
```
3. Install using the distribution files:
```bash
python3 -m pip install emhass
```
4. Clone this repository to obtain the example configuration files.
In this example the repository is cloned to:
```
/home/user/emhass
```
This will be the root path containing the required yaml configuration files (`config_emhass.yaml` and `secrets_emhass.yaml`) and the required folders (a `data` folder to store the optimizations results and a `scripts` folder containing the bash scripts described below).


### Upgrading a Python virtual environment
To upgrade EMHASS you can use:
```bash
python3 -m pip install --upgrade emhass
```

### Using a Python virtual environment

To run EMHASS, use the `emhass` command followed by the these arguments:
- `--action`: Set the desired action when running EMHASS, options are: `perfect-optim`, `dayahead-optim`, `naive-mpc-optim`, `publish-data`, `forecast-model-fit`, `forecast-model-predict` and `forecast-model-tune`.
- `--config`: Define the path to the config.yaml file (include the yaml filename).
- `--params`: Configuration parameters as JSON.
- `--runtimeparams`: Data passed at runtime. This can be used to pass your own forecast data to EMHASS.
- `--costfun`: Select the type of cost function [optional], options are: `cost`, `self-consumption`, `profit` (default).
- `--log2file`: Define if EMHASS should log to a file or not [optional], options are: `True` or `False` (default)
- `--debug`: Define if EMHASS should operate in debugging mode [optional], options are: `True` or `False` (default)
- `--version`: Provides the current version of EMHASS.

For example, the following line command can be used to perform a day-ahead optimization task, using the self-consumption cost function:
```bash
emhass --action 'dayahead-optim' --config '/home/user/emhass/config_emhass.yaml' --costfun 'self-consumption'
```
Before you being running any commands you will need to modify the `config_emhass.yaml` and `secrets_emhass.yaml` files. These files should be updated to reflect your own system, following the instructions in the [documentation](https://emhass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config.html).